Slow movements performed with fluidity and grace.
One of the typical exercises of a traditional ballet class, done both at barre and in center, featuring slow, controlled movements.
The section of a grand pas (e.g., grand pas de deux), often referred to as grand adage, that features dance partnering.
Brisk, lively motion. An attribute of many movements, including those in which a dancer is airborne (e.g., assemblé, changement, entrechat, sauté, sissonne, soubresaut).
Used in ballet to refer to all jumps, regardless of tempo.
A category of exercises found in a traditional ballet class, e.g. petit allegro (small, generally fast jumps) and grand allegro (large, generally slower jumps).
A sliding movement forward, backward, or sideways with both legs bent, then springing into the air with legs straight and together. It can be done either in a gallop or by pushing the leading foot along the floor in a plié to cause an upward spring. It is typically performed in a series or as part of a combination of other movements.
A sliding movement as described above, but without the jump aspect. Instead, the leading foot is pushed along the floor in plié as described above, as a transition into another movement or position.
Circular movement where a leg that starts at the back or the side moves towards the front. For the right leg, this is a counter-clockwise circle. For the left leg, this is a clockwise circle. For example, in a rond de jambe en dedans, starting from first position, the foot first extends to tendu back, then moves to tendu to the side, and then tendu front, and back in again to first position.
Turning motion in the direction of the supporting leg. In a pirouette en dedans, the dancer would turn to their right if their left leg was lifted, or vice versa.  Opposite of en dehors.
A small traveling step (en avant or en arrière) where each leg is alternately brought to cou-de-pied, passing the previous standing leg in doing so. Both legs shoot straight downward in the air, and land on one foot in cou-de-pied. This step is often done turning ("en tournant"), where each jump rotates 1/2 turn.
A traveling series of jumps where each leg is alternately brought to attitude devant in the air, each foot passing the previous one in alternating.
A series of small walks done on pointe or demi-pointe, traveling either forward (en avant) or backward (en arrière); the dancer stands in sous-sus and brushes one leg to the side, then closes it in the opposite position (front or back) of where it started, and repeats this motion several times in succession, alternating legs.
A variation on the typical tour piqué/piqué turn, where the dancer does 1/2 piqué turn as usual, then, without coming off relevé, steps onto the previously working leg and lifts the previously supporting leg to retiré to finish the turn. This can be done several times in succession. (See "Piqué turn.")
The initial part of a grand pas, which serves as an introduction for the suite of dances comprising the grand pas.
The initial appearance of a lead character or characters of a ballet on stage.
Abbreviation for battement fondu, a lowering of the body made by bending the knee of the supporting leg, the working leg extending out à terre or in the air.  Saint-Léon wrote, "Fondu is on one leg what a plié is on two."  Fondu at the barre often refers to battement fondu développé, where the supporting leg begins fondu with the foot of the working leg at cou-de-pied; the working leg extends out through a petit développé as the supporting leg straightens.
A term used to modify any one-legged position in order to indicate a bent supporting leg (e.g. arabesque fondu).
A grand pas d'action is one that contributes to a ballet's story.
In a grand pas classique, classical ballet technique prevails and no character dances are included.
A grand pas de deux serves as the pièce de résistance for the principal male and female characters of a full-length ballet.
A grand pas danced by three or four dancers is a grand pas de trois or grand pas de quatre, respectively.
Jeté (jeté ordinaire/pas jeté) refers to a jump initiated en plié, with the pointed working foot brushing out in dégagé from cou-de-pied (derrière) to seconde (action similar to a non-Russian-style flat frappé), weight being transferred via a jump propelled by pushing off the standing leg from plié, the leading leg landing tombé and the foot of the other/former standing leg ending cou-de-pied (derrière).  Some schools (including ABT at one point) may still refer to this as a petit jeté.
Grand jeté: Grand jeté. see grand jeté, a jump initiated with a grand battement en avant of the leading leg while pushing off the trailing leg from plié (usually led into by some moving step such as chassé, glissade en avant, or pas couru), the trailing leg brushing to grand battement derrière while in the air, the jump ultimately landing on the leading leg.  Resembles the splits (en l'air).
Tour jeté / jeté en tournant ('turn'/'interlaced') is a grand jeté done turning:  a jump initiated with a grand battement en avant of the leading leg, followed by a fouetté turning the direction of the body 180 degrees and the trailing leg brushing through to a grand battement derrière, the jump landing arabesque with the leading leg now the standing (landing) leg.
Coupé jeté en tournant is a compound step, usually done in multiples en manège ('in a circle'), of a coupé (changing the supporting foot) initiating the first quarter of a turn leading into a grand jeté completing the 360-degree rotation of the turn.
Petit jeté in RAD and the French school[5] refers to a one-footed changement passing through cou-de-pied and is what other schools refer to as a changement emboîté.
pas de bourrée derrière – 'behind' / pas de bourrée devant – 'front'
pas de bourrée dessus – 'over,' initially closing the working foot in front / pas de bourrée dessous – 'under,' initially closing the working foot behind
pas de bourrée en arriere – 'traveling backward' / pas be bourrée en avant – 'traveling forward'
pas be bourrée en tournant en dedans – 'turning inward' / pas de bourrée en tournant en dehors – 'turning outward'
pas de bourrée ouvert – 'open,' an open-&gt;closed-&gt;open sequence
pas de bourrée piqué – 'pricked,' with working leg quickly lifted after pricking the floor
pas de bourrée couru – 'running,' also 'flowing like a river'
Bras bas ('arms low') (RAD)/bras au repos ('at rest') (French), preparatory position (Rus.), or fifth en bas (Cecc.) holds the arms low and slightly rounded near the hip.
First position holds the arms round or oval in front of the body somewhere between the naval and breastbone (depending on the school and movement), the fingertips of the hands approaching each other.  In Cecchetti, the hands stay a little lower at tutu height.
Second position in all schools holds the arms extended out to the side, the inner part of the upper arm parallel to the ground with the forearms and palms facing the audience.  The roundness and shoulder height of the arms varies by school.
Third position in the French/RAD schools holds one arm in second with the other arm in first.  The Russian equivalent of this may be petit bras.[citation needed] Third position in Cecchetti holds one arm in a Cecchetti first and the other arm in demi-seconde. Third position in the Russian school holds both arms slightly rounded overhead.  This is equivalent to fifth position (en haut) in other schools.
Third position in Cecchetti holds one arm in a Cecchetti first and the other arm in demi-seconde.
Third position in the Russian school holds both arms slightly rounded overhead.  This is equivalent to fifth position (en haut) in other schools.
Fourth position or fourth ouvert ('open') consists of one arm en haut ('high,' i.e. raised overhead) and the other open to second position.  This is called fourth en haut in Cecchetti.  The Russian school does not designate a fourth position; the Russian equivalent may be grand bras. Fourth position croisé ('crossed') or Spanish fourth in Cecchetti consists of one arm en haut and the other held in first position/Cecchetti fifth en avant.
Fourth position croisé ('crossed') or Spanish fourth in Cecchetti consists of one arm en haut and the other held in first position/Cecchetti fifth en avant.
Fifth position in the French/RAD schools and fifth en haut in Cecchetti holds the arms en haut slightly rounded, fingertips approaching each other.  This is called third position in the Russian school, which does not designate a fifth (or fourth) position.  Cecchetti also recognizes a fifth en bas, the preparatory/bras bas position in other schools, and a fifth en avant, arms rounded between naval/chest height, known as first position in other schools.
Demi-bras ('half arms') holds the arms between first and second position, outstretched with palms presented towards the audience.
Demi-seconde ('half second') holds the arms low out to the side as if grazing the tutu, palms generally down.
Rond de jambe à terre/par terre: ('on the ground.') The extended leg with pointed toe remains on the ground to sweep around in a semi-circle.
Rond de jambe attitude: the leg is swung around from front to side and into attitude position behind as the supporting foot goes en pointe. (See also attitude.)
Rond de jambe en l'air: ('in the air.') The leg is lifted and sustained to the side (à la seconde), with movement being limited to below the knee. If the thigh is held at 90 degrees from the body, the toe draws a circle approximately between the knee of the supporting leg and second position in the air. If the thigh is held lower (e.g. 45 degrees), the circle is drawn to the calf of the supporting leg.  This is commonly done in singles, doubles, and/or sauté.
Grand rond de jambe (en l'air): the leg is extended and sustained at grand battement height to draw a semi-circle in the air.
Demi-grand rond de jambe (en l'air): the leg is extended and sustained off the ground while moving from fourth devant or derrière to second or vice versa, thus drawing only half of the full semi-circle.[12]


 
